# Statement of Work

## 1. Executive Summary
The Executive Summary was written by James Walton-Spence. Our product is an autonomous robot that senses its environment and uses a high-torque drivetrain and dual-core processor to perform specific objectives while improving response time and efficiency. We are electing to use an ESP-32 for the ability to run our sensors separate from the movement to avoid crossing the field boundaries while moving. The tires will be made of a material with a higher coefficient of friction to reduce the chances of spinning in place. This project is important for Texas State University because it addresses the growing demand for interdisciplinary engineers who can solve complex, real-world problems. The multi-semester nature of the project, which allows students to build upon the work of their predecessors, serves as a vital pedagogical tool that mirrors a professional engineering environment. Beyond its educational merit, the project contributes to the university’s mission to produce graduates capable of addressing societal needs, such as the increasing need for autonomous solutions in fields like disaster response and resource management. This project gives students hands-on experience in mechanical, electrical, and computer science engineering, which provides a key foundation for careers in a sector projected to grow at a rapid rate. According to an article from Purdue University’s College of Engineering, the future of the industry is in the hands of interdisciplinary teams that can develop innovative systems to solve complex challenges [1]. The Torque Titan Sumobot follows a milestone driven approach. Subsystems are built and tested off-site, with full integration on campus. Bryan handles power and PCB design, James leads sensor configuration, and Gregory programs ESP-32 firmware. After material testing, a demobot with boundary and object detection will be ready by the end of D1. By the end of D2, a fully autonomous, competition-ready robot rigorously tested for performance, reliability, and strategic engagement will be complete.
